[workers] Update vitest getting started guide (#21454)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/testing/vitest-integration/get-started/write-your-first-test.mdx

---

import {
	TabItem,
	Tabs,
	TypeScriptExample,
	PackageManagers,
	Details,
} from "~/components";

This guide will instruct you through getting started with the `@cloudflare/vitest-pool-workers` package. For more complex examples of testing using `@cloudflare/vitest-pool-workers`, refer to [Recipes](/workers/testing/vitest-integration/recipes/).

## Prerequisites

First, make sure that:

- Your [compatibility date](/workers/configuration/compatibility-dates/) is set to `2022-10-31` or later.
- Your Worker using the ES modules format (if not, refer to the [migrate to the ES modules format](/workers/reference/migrate-to-module-workers/) guide).
- Vitest and `@cloudflare/vitest-pool-workers` are installed in your project as dev dependencies

  <PackageManagers
  	pkg="vitest@~3.0.0 @cloudflare/vitest-pool-workers"
  	dev="true"
  />

  :::note

  Currently, the `@cloudflare/vitest-pool-workers` package _only_ works with Vitest 2.0.x - 3.0.x.

  :::

## Define Vitest configuration

Create a `vitest.config.js` or `vitest.config.ts` file if you do not already have one.
Then add the following snippet, which uses `defineWorkersConfig` to configure the Workers Vitest integration.

> There are two ways to configure the Workers Vitest integration.

Reviewer: Maybe we can simplify this a little bit and remove this line as both approaches can be used together just like your 2nd example. 🤔

1.  If you want to use the same configuration as your Worker, you can simply reference a Wrangler file via `wrangler.configPath`.

    ```ts title = vitest.config.ts
    import { defineWorkersConfig } from "@cloudflare/vitest-pool-workers/config";

    export default defineWorkersConfig({
    	test: {
    		poolOptions: {
    			workers: {
    				wrangler: { configPath: "./wrangler.toml" },
    			},
    		},
    	},
    });
    ```

> 2.  You can override configuration using the `miniflare` key.

Reviewer: Would something like this helps?

```suggestion
You can also customize and define additional bindings using the `miniflare` key. This will override bindings defined in your wrangler config if the binding name matches.
```

        For example, this configuration would add a KV namespace `TEST_NAMESPACE` that was only accessed and modified in tests.

        ```js null {6-8}
        export default defineWorkersConfig({
        	test: {
        		poolOptions: {
        			workers: {
        				wrangler: { configPath: "./wrangler.toml" },
        				miniflare: {
        					kvNamespaces: ["TEST_NAMESPACE"],
        				},
        			},
        		},
        	},
        });
        ```

    For a full list of available Miniflare options, refer to the [Miniflare `WorkersOptions` API documentation](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/miniflare#interface-workeroptions).

For a full list of available configuration options, refer to [Configuration](/workers/testing/vitest-integration/configuration/).

## Define types

> First make sure you have run [`wrangler types`](/workers/wrangler/commands/), which generates `Env` types based on your Worker's bindings and [runtime types](/workers/languages/typescript/).

Reviewer: I find it a little bit to strange to have `If you are using TypeScript...` after this line. How about this?

```suggestion
If you are using TypeScript, make sure you have run [`wrangler types`](/workers/wrangler/commands/), which generates `Env` types based on your Worker's bindings and [runtime types](/workers/languages/typescript/). You can then add a `tsconfig.json` in your tests folder and add `"@cloudflare/vitest-pool-workers"` to your types array to define types for the Workers runtime and the module exports from `cloudflare:test`.
```

    		const ctx = createExecutionContext();
    		const response = await worker.fetch(request, env, ctx);
    		// Wait for all `Promise`s passed to `ctx.waitUntil()` to settle before running test assertions
    		await waitOnExecutionContext(ctx);
    		expect(await response.status).toBe(404);
    		expect(await response.text()).toBe("Not found");
    	});
    });

    ```

</TypeScriptExample>

## Write an integration test

You can use the SELF fetcher provided by the `cloudflare:test` to write an integration test. This is a service binding to the default export defined in the main Worker. The main Worker runs in the same isolate/context as tests so any global mocks will apply to it too.

<TypeScriptExample filename="test/integration.spec.ts">
	```ts
	import { SELF } from "cloudflare:test";
	import { describe, it, expect } from "vitest";

    describe("Hello World worker", () => {
    	it("responds with not found and proper status for /404", async () => {
    		const response = await SELF.fetch("http://example.com/404");
    		expect(await response.status).toBe(404);
    		expect(await response.text()).toBe("Not found");
    	});
    });

    ```

> </TypeScriptExample>

Reviewer: How about making the unit test and integration test a subsection of `Write tests`? They can share the same example worker and just show people two different way to tests their workers.
